_pages/Command-Line-Options.md, before:

---
layout: post
title:  "Command Line Options"
category: wiki
section: 2 - Basics
order: 1
---
Tests can be executed by running `mvn clean verify` followed by any properties you wish to specify.

*NB see also the "Using Config yaml files..." entry for using config files to provide some or all of these params instead*

## General

Property | Description | Values
-------- | ----------- | ------
`browser`|  The browser on which you wish to run the tests. Defaults to `firefox` if not specified. |`firefox`, `chrome`, `safari`, `ie`, `opera`, `phantomjs`
`browserVersion`| The browser version on which you wish to run the tests. Not mandatory and is only taken into consideration when running remotely e.g. on Selenium Grid,  Sauce Labs or BrowserStack | e.g. `8.0`
`groups`| The TestNG test groups which you wish to run. All tests groups will run if not specified. | e.g.`checkintest`
`test`| The test class,  or list of test classes (separated by commas),  to run. Can include wildcards. |`TflLoginWebTests, Heroku*`
`gridURL`| The URL of your Selenium Grid hub. Mandatory if you wish to run your tests on your Selenium Grid. | e.g.`http://localhost:4444/wd/hub`
`threads`| The number of threads to use. Defaults to 1 if not specified. | e.g. `3`
`build`| The build version or app version to log to Sauce Labs,  BrowserStack,  or Capture. Not mandatory. | e.g. `build-1234`

## Remote Grids/Different devices & platforms

Property | Description | Values
----|------|------
`browserStack`| Must be set to true if you wish to run on BrowserStack. Defaults to false. |`true`, `false`
`sauce`| Must be set to true if you wish to run on Sauce Labs. Defaults to false. |`true`, `false`
`platform`| The platform on which you wish to run the tests. Is only taken into consideration when running remotely. To be specified instead of 'os' when running with BrowserStack. | e.g. `windows`, `ios`, `android`, `OSX`
`platformVersion`| The platform version on which you wish to run the tests. Is only taken into consideration when running remotely. To be specified instead of 'os_version' when running with BrowserStack. | e.g. `5.0`
`device`| The device on which you wish to run remote tests. If not using SauceLabs or BrowserStack,  can be specified with the `-Dbrowser=chrome` parameter to instigate a Chrome browser emulator of the specified device. |`iPhone`, `iPad`, `iPhone Retina 4-inch`, `Galaxy S4`,  etc….

### Remote Supported Devices/Platforms
**BrowserStack:** https://www.browserstack.com/list-of-browsers-and-platforms

**SauceLabs:** https://saucelabs.com/platforms

## Jira/Zephyr/Test Result Logging Integrations:

Property | Description | Values
----|------|------
`jiraURL`| The base URL of the JIRA instance you want to use | e.g. `http://jira:8080`
`jiraUsername`| The JIRA user you want to use | e.g. `rgates`
`jiraPassword`| The JIRA user's password | e.g. `password`
`jqlQuery`| the JQL query to use to look up the JIRA tests to run (the results of the query will be looked up against the @Issue annotations on tests | e.g. `(priority=1 and component=Admin) or issueKey=JIRA-123`
`jiraResultFieldName`| The jira field name to attempt to log results to for the specified @Issue. The values to change the field to are specified in the jira config file. Useful if you're using a jira field to mark the test result | e.g. `Test Result`
`jiraResultTransition`| If specified,  will attempt to transition the @Issue specified through the transitions specified in the jira config. Useful if using a customised jira workflow for managing test results,  for example | e.g. `true`
`resultVersion`| The 'Version' to mark the test execution against in Zephyr for JIRA (requires ZAPI) | e.g. `App v1.1.2`
`zapiCycleRegEx`| If the Zephyr test cycle name contains this string test results will be logged against the matching cycles. If not specified,  no further filtering of cycles will happen. | e.g. `firefox` or `my-special-cycle`


## Examples

Running web tests using Firefox:

```bash
mvn clean verify
```

Running web tests using Chrome:

```bash
mvn clean verify -Dbrowser=chrome
```

Running web tests on Firefox 34.0.5 with Selenium Grid:

```bash
mvn clean verify -Dbrowser=firefox -DbrowserVersion=34.0.5 -DgridURL=http://localhost:4444/wd/hub
```

Running test methods which match the pattern`testM*`on Firefox 36 with Selenium Grid and Capture:

```bash
mvn clean verify -Dtest=TestClass#testM* -Dbrowser=firefox -DbrowserVersion=36 -DgridURL=http://grid:4444/wd/hub -DsutName="My Project" -DsutVersion=0.0.1 -DcaptureURL=http://capture:5000
```

Running mobile web tests on Chrome,  using their device emulation:

```bash
mvn clean verify -Dbrowser=chrome -Ddevice="Apple iPad 3 / 4"
```

Running mobile web tests on BrowserStack Win XP Firefox 33:

```bash
export BROWSER_STACK_USERNAME=<username>
export BROWSER_STACK_ACCESS_KEY=<access_key>
mvn clean verify -DbrowserStack=true -Dbrowser=firefox -DbrowserVersion=33 -Dplatform=Windows -DplatformVersion=XP
```

Running mobile web tests on Sauce Labs iOS 8.0 iPad Simulator:

```bash
export SAUCE_USERNAME=<username>
export SAUCE_ACCESS_KEY=<access_key>
mvn clean verify -Dsauce=true -Dplatform=ios -Dbrowser=safari -DplatformVersion=8.0 -Ddevice="iPad Simulator"
```

Running mobile web tests on BrowserStack iOS iPad Air (real device):

```bash
export BROWSER_STACK_USERNAME=<username>
export BROWSER_STACK_ACCESS_KEY=<access_key>
mvn clean verify -DbrowserStack=true -Dbrowser=ios -Ddevice="iPad Air"
```

NB - platform and platformVersion (os & os_version in BrowserStack config) are not required or supported when running on mobile devices


Running mobile app tests on Sauce Labs Android Emulator:

```bash
export SAUCE_USERNAME=<username>
export SAUCE_ACCESS_KEY=<access_key>
mvn clean verify -Dsauce=true -Dplatform=android -DappPath=<path_to_.apk>
```

Run regression tests (as marked in JIRA with the label REGRESSION) and log test results against the v1.1.2 version in JIRA:

```bash
mvn clean verify -Dbrowser=firefox -DjiraURL=http://jira:8080 -DjiraResultVersion=v1.1.2 -DjqlQuery=labels=REGRESSION
```




For full lists of platforms/browsers supported see:
[BrowserStack](https://www.browserstack.com/list-of-browsers-and-platforms?product=automate) and [SauceLabs](https://saucelabs.com/platforms/) platform lists.

Commit message:

Updated command line options for 2.3.1 and added custom_browser_impl ref section

_pages/Command-Line-Options.md, after:

---
layout: post
title:  "Command Line Options"
category: wiki
section: 2 - Basics
order: 1
---
Tests can be executed by running `mvn clean verify` followed by any properties you wish to specify.

*NB see also the "Using Config yaml files..." entry for using config files to provide some or all of these params instead*

## General

Property | Description | Values
-------- | ----------- | ------
`browser`|  The browser on which you wish to run the tests. Defaults to `firefox` if not specified. |`firefox`, `chrome`, `safari`, `ie`, `opera`, `phantomjs`,`legacyfirefox`,`electron`,`custom`
`browserVersion`| The browser version on which you wish to run the tests. Not mandatory and is only taken into consideration when running remotely e.g. on Selenium Grid,  Sauce Labs or BrowserStack | e.g. `8.0`
`groups`| The TestNG test groups which you wish to run. All tests groups will run if not specified. | e.g.`checkintest`
`test`| The test class,  or list of test classes (separated by commas),  to run. Can include wildcards. |`TflLoginWebTests, Heroku*`
`gridURL`| The URL of your Selenium Grid hub. Mandatory if you wish to run your tests on your Selenium Grid. | e.g.`http://localhost:4444/wd/hub`
`threads`| The number of threads to use. Defaults to 1 if not specified. | e.g. `3`
`build`| The build version or app version to log to Sauce Labs,  BrowserStack,  or Capture. Not mandatory. | e.g. `build-1234`
`customBrowserImpl`| Used alongside the `-Dbrowser=custom` param. Allows users to specify classname of their own browser implementation, for example for specifying a custom set of DesiredCapabilities | e.g. `ChromeIncognitoBrowserImpl`

## Browser Properties/capabilities

Property | Description | Values
-------- | ----------- | ------
`maximise`| Maximise browser on opening (if possible) | e.g `true`/`false`
`resolution`| Set browser dimensions to specific setting (if possible) | e.g. `1024x543`
`firefoxProfile`| Provide a custom firefox profile when opening firefox - eg containing specific authentication settings preset [EDIT - see `customBrowserImpl` below for preferred method] | e.g. `path/to/myCustomFFProfile.profile`
`chromeUserDataDir`| Set custom chrome user data directory for custom implementations [EDIT - see `customBrowserImpl` below for preferred method] | e.g. `path/to/chrome_user_data_dir`
`customBrowserImpl`| Used alongside the `-Dbrowser=custom` param. Allows users to specify classname of their own browser implementation, for example for specifying a custom set of DesiredCapabilities | e.g. `ChromeIncognitoBrowserImpl`

## Remote Grids/Different devices & platforms

Property | Description | Values
----|------|------
`browserStack`| Must be set to true if you wish to run on BrowserStack. Defaults to false. |`true`, `false`
`sauce`| Must be set to true if you wish to run on Sauce Labs. Defaults to false. |`true`, `false`
`platform`| The platform on which you wish to run the tests. Is only taken into consideration when running remotely. To be specified instead of 'os' when running with BrowserStack. | e.g. `windows`, `ios`, `android`, `OSX`
`platformVersion`| The platform version on which you wish to run the tests. Is only taken into consideration when running remotely. To be specified instead of 'os_version' when running with BrowserStack. | e.g. `5.0`
`device`| The device on which you wish to run remote tests. If not using SauceLabs or BrowserStack,  can be specified with the `-Dbrowser=chrome` parameter to instigate a Chrome browser emulator of the specified device. |`iPhone`, `iPad`, `iPhone Retina 4-inch`, `Galaxy S4`,  etc….

### Remote Supported Devices/Platforms
**BrowserStack:** https://www.browserstack.com/list-of-browsers-and-platforms

**SauceLabs:** https://saucelabs.com/platforms

## Jira/Zephyr/Test Result Logging Integrations:

Property | Description | Values
----|------|------
`jiraURL`| The base URL of the JIRA instance you want to use | e.g. `http://jira:8080`
`jiraUsername`| The JIRA user you want to use | e.g. `rgates`
`jiraPassword`| The JIRA user's password | e.g. `password`
`jqlQuery`| the JQL query to use to look up the JIRA tests to run (the results of the query will be looked up against the @Issue annotations on tests | e.g. `(priority=1 and component=Admin) or issueKey=JIRA-123`
`jiraResultFieldName`| The jira field name to attempt to log results to for the specified @Issue. The values to change the field to are specified in the jira config file. Useful if you're using a jira field to mark the test result | e.g. `Test Result`
`jiraResultTransition`| If specified,  will attempt to transition the @Issue specified through the transitions specified in the jira config. Useful if using a customised jira workflow for managing test results,  for example | e.g. `true`
`resultVersion`| The 'Version' to mark the test execution against in Zephyr for JIRA (requires ZAPI) | e.g. `App v1.1.2`
`zapiCycleRegEx`| If the Zephyr test cycle name contains this string test results will be logged against the matching cycles. If not specified,  no further filtering of cycles will happen. | e.g. `firefox` or `my-special-cycle`


## Examples

Running web tests using Firefox:

```bash
mvn clean verify
```

Running web tests using Chrome:

```bash
mvn clean verify -Dbrowser=chrome
```

Running web tests on Firefox 34.0.5 with Selenium Grid:

```bash
mvn clean verify -Dbrowser=firefox -DbrowserVersion=34.0.5 -DgridURL=http://localhost:4444/wd/hub
```

Running test methods which match the pattern`testM*`on Firefox 36 with Selenium Grid and Capture:

```bash
mvn clean verify -Dtest=TestClass#testM* -Dbrowser=firefox -DbrowserVersion=36 -DgridURL=http://grid:4444/wd/hub -DsutName="My Project" -DsutVersion=0.0.1 -DcaptureURL=http://capture:5000
```

Running mobile web tests on Chrome,  using their device emulation:

```bash
mvn clean verify -Dbrowser=chrome -Ddevice="Apple iPad 3 / 4"
```

Running mobile web tests on BrowserStack Win XP Firefox 33:

```bash
export BROWSER_STACK_USERNAME=<username>
export BROWSER_STACK_ACCESS_KEY=<access_key>
mvn clean verify -DbrowserStack=true -Dbrowser=firefox -DbrowserVersion=33 -Dplatform=Windows -DplatformVersion=XP
```

Running mobile web tests on Sauce Labs iOS 8.0 iPad Simulator:

```bash
export SAUCE_USERNAME=<username>
export SAUCE_ACCESS_KEY=<access_key>
mvn clean verify -Dsauce=true -Dplatform=ios -Dbrowser=safari -DplatformVersion=8.0 -Ddevice="iPad Simulator"
```

Running mobile web tests on BrowserStack iOS iPad Air (real device):

```bash
export BROWSER_STACK_USERNAME=<username>
export BROWSER_STACK_ACCESS_KEY=<access_key>
mvn clean verify -DbrowserStack=true -Dbrowser=ios -Ddevice="iPad Air"
```

NB - platform and platformVersion (os & os_version in BrowserStack config) are not required or supported when running on mobile devices


Running mobile app tests on Sauce Labs Android Emulator:

```bash
export SAUCE_USERNAME=<username>
export SAUCE_ACCESS_KEY=<access_key>
mvn clean verify -Dsauce=true -Dplatform=android -DappPath=<path_to_.apk>
```

Run regression tests (as marked in JIRA with the label REGRESSION) and log test results against the v1.1.2 version in JIRA:

```bash
mvn clean verify -Dbrowser=firefox -DjiraURL=http://jira:8080 -DjiraResultVersion=v1.1.2 -DjqlQuery=labels=REGRESSION
```




For full lists of platforms/browsers supported see:
[BrowserStack](https://www.browserstack.com/list-of-browsers-and-platforms?product=automate) and [SauceLabs](https://saucelabs.com/platforms/) platform lists.
